* Process Structure

  -- ( ) Look into variable weight processes.
  -- ( ) Fill in thread states after reading up on concurrency.

___

Every process has a unique integer => PID. Send signal to processes using
PIDs. 

Threads require an address space and other resources but can share them among
other threads.

[ⓘ] Processes cannot share anything without IPC which usually
involves copying the state from process to process or using an intermediary
file and mmapping it?

** Process State

   -- NEW: undergoing process creation
   -- ZOMBIE: undergoing process termination
   -- NORMAL: RUNNABLE if it is running or can be run, SLEEPING if it is waiting
      on some IO or STOPPED if it has been stopped by a signal or its parent
      process.

** Process Lists

   Process entries are stored in `zomproc` if it is in a zombie state and
   `allproc` otherwise. This segregation exists to improve the efficiency of
   syscalls like `wait` and the scheduler which must scan over all running
   processes.

** Process Entry

   Any running process is associated with a process entry. The process entry
   contains data structures that describe...

   -- Process session and group identifiers
   -- Real, effective and saved user and group identifiers
   -- Virtual memory address space
   -- File descriptors that are opened by the process and its cwd
   -- syscall vector ==> to run binaries compiled for other unixes by providing
      a different syscall vector
   -- Utilization of resources provided by the system
   -- Statistics, timers and profiling information
   -- Actions to take when a signal is posted to a process
   -- Thread management
